so let me set up an example healthcare
example there was a patient named mrs.
grant and one day
8:15 in the morning a nurse is making
rounds through the nursing you know
where mrs. grant is recuperating from
elective surgery and discovers that mrs.
grant is suffering a full-body seizure
the nurse does the right thing
immediately calls a code code team
swarms mrs. grant someone draws blood to
run it down to the lab to see if that
leads to any clue as to what's going on
mrs. grant herself is rushed up to
radiology the one to see if there's any
neurological explanation for her
condition the Radiological exams prove
negative there's no mass no bleeding
nothing like that mrs. grant is brought
back to the nursing unit at which point
the care team intersects with mrs. grant
and the results of the blood work
turns out she's an undetectable serum
glucose level so said more simply almost
no blood sugar there's no seizures due
to the fact that her brain is being
starved for a fuel
what does the team do exactly the right
thing they try to look raised mrs.
grants blood sugar levels turns out it's
too little it's too late mrs. grant
lapses into a coma the coma proves
irreversible and seven weeks after what
was elective and successful surgery mrs.
grant is removed from life support
there's the question what happened well
to the credit of this medical staff they
try to answer that question almost in
the midst of this crisis as mrs. grant
is being stabilized to try to ask what
happened what's going on and so first of
all of course they asked the day nurse
who encountered mrs. grant at 8:15 what
do you know about mrs. grants condition
and why was she suffering seizures well
the day nurse of course knows nothing
this was her first encounter with mrs.
grant they asked a night nurse turns out
he doesn't know much either he had seen
mrs. Brandon 90 minutes earlier at 6:45
the conditions were that a alarm had
sounded indicating a possible occlusion
of blood clot perhaps in the central
line so he had respond to that doing
everything right he had gone to mrs.
grants room gotten a vial of heparin
injected the appropriate dose of heparin
to the central line to break up any
potential blood clot check that mrs.
grant was resting well and what about is
way to care for his other patients
between 6:45 and 8:15 hand and check on
mrs. grandidis were apparently resting
comfortably so they're a little bit
dumbfounded as to what might have
happened to mrs. brand until they start
surveying policing mrs. grants room just
trying to find out what was where as
they're doing all this someone gets to
the sharps container or medical waste is
disposed and is going through and trying
to account for all different types of
medication and whatnot and says you know
this heparin you were talking about I
don't see an empty vial of heparin but
you said you were in mrs. grants room to
administer it so everyone assumes that
this nurse like every other art nurse in
the world was moving quickly one job to
one x y have taken the heparin put it on
the counter they can't find it there I
might have put the heparin in a pocket
on a smock can't find it there can't
find an unaccounted vial of heparin in
another room it's a big mystery they
continue to do the inventory of the
sharps container and they discover
something instead an empty multi-dose
vial of insulin oh where did this come
from well the first explanation of
course is it shouldn't have been in mrs.
Grant's room there was no order for
insulin no record of administering
insulin so I say well maybe that insulin
empty vial of insulin arrived exactly as
they thought the heparin might have left
in this pocket of nurses smock well they
survey the entire unit and they can't
find an unaccounted-for empty vial of
insulin that's why they start putting
two two two together goes from more of
an interview to more of an interrogation
of this nurse thing I don't understand I
simply don't understand we're looking
for we're looking for an empty vial of
heparin
but instead I'm holding an empty vial of
insulin what is going on in the nursing
news is it's protesting I just don't
know I don't know and the midst of this
interrogation the person is actually
doing it son-of-a-gun
is it what's the matter he said with all
my ranting and raving I don't actually
know which hand is holding a vial of
insulin which is holding a vial of
heparin so what do you mean he says well
my hands wrapped around him they feel
the same they're about the same size the
same weight the same weight the same
shape what did you look at him look at
him they appeared about the same they're
the same collar what
read the label I said yeah well is it
tiny little label was even smaller print
me I read him what's his insulin once
it's heparin
I started thinking through what's the
context in which this insulin or heparin
might have been used well it was the end
of a nightshift
the nurse was tired there was an alarm
sounding the nurse was in a rush
mrs. grant was asleep the room was dark
when this nurse went to reach for
heparin where did he reach for it on a
nursing cart what else is on the nursing
cart 18 inches away the store of insulin
so what do they think happened in the
midst of doing exactly the right thing
nurse in the right place at the nation's
nursing station hearing the right sounds
interpreting them correctly trying to do
exactly the right thing in a rush to do
the right thing the nurse inadvertently
grabbed said several doses of insulin
injected them into the central line
inadvertently and ended up killing mrs.
grant